.\" Copyright (c) 1994 University of Wisconsin - Madison.
.\" All rights reserved.  
.\"
.TH Tickle_BM 1 "Dec 19, 1994"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
Tickle_BM - A Tk visualization tool. 
.SH SYNTAX
Type \fBbm_demo\f at the prompt.
.fi
.SH BUTTONS
.IP "\fBStart"
Re-start the trace from the beginning.
..
.IP "\fBNext\fP \fIn\fP"
Step down the trace file named \fItrace_filename\f
.I n
lines. The default is 1, but it can be changed manually. Breakpoints
are ignored.
..
.IP "\fBPrev"
Go up the \fItrace_file\f 
.I n
lines. The default is 1, but it can be changed manually. Breakpoints
are ignored. All actions logged in the trace file between the new and
old lines will be undone (hence the state of the \fIbuffer manager\f will
be the same as if the last \fIn\f actions had not been executed). NOTE
THAT YOU CAN ALSO GO TO \fBANY\f PREVIOUS LINE BY DOUBLE-CLICKING ON IT.
..
.IP "\fBCont"
Continue until you encounter a \fIbreakpoint.
..
.IP "\fBExit"
Exits...
.fi
.SH MENUBUTTONS
.IP "\fBHelp"
Shows this page.
.fi
.SH REPLACEMENT STRATEGY
Displays the replacement strategy used - for now \fILRU\f & \fIMRU\f - and the
list of frames. \fBNote:\f The list is \fBmeaningless\f unless \fBALL\f frames
have been pinned already - this is due to the way the replacement strategy
is implemented in \fIminibase.\f Hopefully this problem will be corrected
soon.
.fi
.SH DISPLAY LABELS
Display info about the buffer under the mouse.
.IP "\fBFile Name"
Displays the name of the file to which the page currently in the \fIbuffer\f
belongs.
..
.IP "\fBPage Number"
Displays the \fIpage number\f of the page in the buffer.
..
.IP "\fBFrame Number"
Displays the number of the \fIbuffer.\f
..
.IP "\fBPage Pins"
Displays the number of times the page currently in the buffer has been
pinned.
.. 
.IP "\fBPage Unpins"
Displays the number of times the page currently in the buffer has been
unpinned.
.fi
.SH STATISTICS
.PP
The following statistics are shown:
.IP
The ratio of pinned-to-total pages.
.IP
The hit ratio (percentage of times a requested page is already in the
buffer). 
.IP 
The percentage of the number of \fIunpinned\f pages that are \fIdirty\f
at the time of unpinning.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The mission of \fBTickle_BM\f is to give the user a feeling of how the 
\fIbuffer_manager\f works. The buttons above allow to trace the
behaviour of the \fIbm.\f 
Tickle_BM works as follows: There exists a file 
which contains a \fIlog\f of the actions taken by the \fIbuffer_manager.\f

The format
of the file should be as specified below:
.DS
The first line should be:
.PP
xx/zz/yy  AA:BB:CC  STARTUP \fIf\f \fIg\f \fIe\f
.PP
where \fIxx/zz/yy  AA:BB:CC\f are the date and time of the day.
\fIf,\f \fIg\f and \fIe\f are the \fIpage size, \f the \fInumber of buffers\f
and the \fIreplacement policy,\f respectively. Subsequently,
the file contents must be:
.PP
FILE_OPEN (or FILE_CLOSE) \fIfilename\f
.pp 
PAGE_READ (or PAGE_WRITE) \fIfilename\f \fIx\f \fIy\f
.pp 
PAGE_PIN (or PAGE_UNPIN, or PAGE_DIRTY) \fIfilename\f \fIx\f \fIy\f
.PP
\fIx\f and \fIy\f are the \fIbuffer\f and \fIpage\f numbers, respectively.
.DE
.PP
Using the buttons described above one can trace the actions of the 
\fIbuffer_manager.\f 
(Tcl is case sensitive, so the trace file should contain the info exactly
as specified above. Any number of blank spaces may exist between two strings
of characters.) 
.pp
Example log-files can be found in subdirectory \fILOG_FILES\f.
.fi
.PP
.SH HOW IT WORKS
Tickle_BM reads the contents of the \fItrace_file\f and depicts the corresponding 
actions (one at a time, or more - see the \fBNext\f and \fBPrev\f button
entries, above). By bringing the mouse over a buffer, info about the buffer
is displayed. Also, a blob of color is shown in every frame; this is used
to distinguish the files where the pages come from.
.fi
.PP
.SH BREAKPOINTS
\fIBreakpoints\f can be inserted in the \fItrace_file\f by inserting a
line with a * as its only character. Only the \fBcont\f button acts
on the breakpoints.
.PP
.fi
.SH BUFFER MANAGER SIZE
In \fIminibase,\f the user specifies the size of the buffer manager. The
present version of \fBTickle_BM,\f though, supports only buffer sizes
between 16 and 64. 
.PP
.fi
.SH NOTES
The hit-ratio is sometimes greater than 1. This is due to the fact that
the graph gets updated with every action taken by the \fIbuffer_manager,\f
so there exists the possibility that the \fIbm\f will issue a number of
READS before actually pinning the pages - the graph - which depicts the
ratio READS/PINS will jump up and then go down again as the pages start
to get pinned.
.PP
.fi
.SH BUGS
Unknown yet.
